>> Sreenivasan: A BUMP IN THE
ROAD OF RECOVERY.
DO WEAKER JOBS NUMBERS POINT TO
AN ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN?
GOOD EVENING, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD, FROM WASHINGTON TO
TEHRAN, WORLD REACTION TO THE
OUTLINED NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN.
IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE, TO
ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
PLUS, AHEAD OF OPENING DAY, HOW
ONE OF AMERICA'S PASTIMES IS
BECOMING MORE DIVERSE.
>> IT'S A STATISTICAL
IMPOSSIBILITY THAT THE BEST
CANDIDATE FOR EVERY POSITION IN
BASEBALL IS A MIDDLE-AGED
CAUCASIAN MALE.
AND:
>> NO ONE ELSE HAS A RULER WITH
SIX WIVES, WHO CUTS THE HEADS
OFF TWO OF THEM.
SO YOU'RE OFF TO A FLYING START
THERE.
>> Sreenivasan: A TUDOR
TAKEOVER, ADAPTING THE STORY OF
KING HENRY THE EIGHTH FOR PRINT,
BROADWAY AND TELEVISION.
THE DRAMA, POWER PLAYS AND AN
ANTI-HERO RE-IMAGINED.
>> IT IS THE STORY OF A NEW
MODERN MAN AT THE START OF A NEW
MODERN EURO
AND THE WAY IN WHICH EVERYONE
REALLY TRIES TO SERVE THE WHIMS
OF HENRY THE VIII.
>> Sreenivasan: THOSE ARE SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Sreenivasan: A YEAR-LONG
STREAK OF SOLID U.S. JOB GROWTH
HAS ENDED.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT REPORTED
TODAY THAT IN MARCH, EMPLOYERS
ADDED A NET OF JUST 126,000
JOBS.
THAT'S THE SMALLEST NUMBER OF
NEW POSITIONS CREATED SINCE
DECEMBER OF 2013.
IT ALSO BREAKS A STRING OF 12
STRAIGHT MONTHS WITH GAINS
OF MORE THAN 200,000 JOBS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA REACTED TO THE
NUMBERS, DURING A VISIT TO UTAH.
>> PARTS OF THE GLOBE HAVE SEEN
THEIR ECONOMIES WEAKEN.
EUROPE HAS HAD A WEAKER ECONOMY.
ASIA HAS BEEN SLOWING DOWN.
WE HAVE HAD THE STRONGEST
ECONOMY, BUT WE'RE IMPACTED BY
WHAT HAPPENS AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: THE UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE FOR MARCH REMAINED AT 5.5%.
U.S. STOCK MARKETS WILL HAVE THE
WEEKEND TO ABSORB THE NEWS.
THEY WERE CLOSED TODAY IN
OBSERVANCE OF GOOD FRIDAY.
BUT WE'LL LOOK MORE CLOSELY AT
THE NUMBERS, AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
A MAN WHO SPENT NEARLY 30 YEARS
ON ALABAMA'S DEATH ROW WALKED
OUT TODAY, A FREE MAN.
RAY HINTON WAS CONVICTED IN TWO
1985 MURDERS.
BUT NOW, PROSECUTORS ADMIT THE
ONLY PHYSICAL EVIDENCE, THE
CRIME SCENE BULLETS, FAILED TO
LINK HIM TO THE CRIME.
TODAY, HINTON HUGGED HIS FAMILY
AND FRIENDS AS HE LEFT THE
JEFFERSON COUNTY JAIL IN
BIRMINGHAM.
HE SAID HE HAD BEEN THE VICTIM
OF A "MISCARRIAGE OF JUSTICE."
>> I SHOULDN'T SIT ON DEATH ROW
FOR 30 YEARS.
ALL THEY HAD TO DO WAS TEST THE
GUN, BUT WHEN YOU THINK YOU HIGH
AND MIGHTY AND YOU ABOVE THE
LAW, YOU DON'T HAVE TO ANSWER TO
NOBODY.
BUT I GOT NEWS FOR THEM.
EVERYBODY THAT PLAYED A PART IN
SENDING ME TO DEATH ROW, YOU
WILL ANSWER TO GOD.
HIS HINTON INDEED HAD INADEQUATE
REPRESENTATION AT HIS TRIAL,
>> Sreenivasan: KENYA WAS IN
SHOCK, AND MOURNING, TODAY AFTER
THURSDAY'S SLAUGHTER AT A
COLLEGE.
ISLAMIST GUNMEN FROM AL-SHABAB,
BASED IN SOMALIA, KILLED LEAST
148 PEOPLE.
DAN RIVERS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS FILED THIS
REPORT.
>> THEY ARE LITERALLY FLOORED
WITH GRIEF.
THE RELATIVES OF THIS TERRORIST
MASSACRE FINALLY GETTING THE
CONFIRMATION THEY HAVE BEEN SO
DREADING.
THE BODIES HAVE BEEN ARRIVING AT
THIS MORTUARY IN NAIROBI
THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
THE LONG KEY TO IDENTIFY THEM,
THE SIGN OF THE SCALE OF THIS
ATROCITY.
SURVIVORS DESCRIBED HOW THE
AL-SHABAAB HUNTED DOWN STUDENTS
WHO COULDN'T RECITE VERSES FROM
THE QUR'AN.
THIS GIVES A SENSE OF THE CHAOS
AND TERROR, A WELL-MINDED ATTACK
POSSIBLY MASTER MINDED WITH
DETAILED LOCAL KNOWLEDGE.
ALREADY WANTED POSTERS ARE
CIRCULATED FOR MOHAMED MUHAMAD,
HE COMMANDS A NETWORK OF
TERRORISTS INSIDE KENYA.
>> THEY HAVE NO REASON TO HAVE
COMMITTED THE HEINOUS CRIMES.
WE WILL HUNT THEM FOREVER.
(SINGING)
>> A SPECIAL SERVICE WAS HELD
OUTSIDE THE MORTUARY FOR THE
VICTIMS TODAY BUT IN KENYA GOOD
FRIDAY HAS BEEN OVERSHADOWED BY
EVIL THAT HAS LEFT SO MANY IN
MOURNING IN EASTER.
>> Sreenivasan: IN YEMEN TODAY,
SAUDI ARABIA STEPPED UP AID TO
FORCES BATTLING SHIITE REBELS.
IN ADEN, SAUDI WARPLANES AIR-
DROPPED SUPPLIES AND WEAPONS TO
FIGHTERS LOYAL TO  THE
PRESIDENT.
THEY ALSO CARRIED OUT NEW AIR
STRIKES ON THE SHIITES.
ADEN IS THE GOVERNMENT'S LAST
FOOTHOLD IN YEMEN.
MORE CHILLING DETAILS EMERGED
TODAY ABOUT THE "GERMAN-WINGS"
FLIGHT DISASTER.
FRENCH INVESTIGATORS REPORTED
THE CO-PILOT, ANDREAS LUBITZ,
REPEATEDLY AND DELIBERATELY
ACCELERATED THE AIRLINER BEFORE
IT SLAMMED INTO THE FRENCH ALPS.
THE INFORMATION CAME FROM THE
"FLIGHT DATA RECORDER", FOUND
YESTERDAY, BURIED IN GRAVEL.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
RECOMMENDED DESIGNATING
12.3 MILLION ACRES IN ALASKA AS
WILDERNS,ES LOCATED IN THE
ARCTIC WILDLIFE REFUGE.
THE RECOMMENDATION WAS MADE IN A
REVISED CONSERVATION PLAN FOR
THE
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WAS GOOD
FRIDAY FOR CHRISTIANS AROUND THE
WORLD.
THOUSANDS OF PILGRIMS TRAVELED
TO JERUSALEM'S OLD CITY.
THEY RETRACED THE ROUTE THAT
JESUS IS SAID TO HAVE TAKEN, TO
THE SITE WHERE HE WAS CRUCIFIED.
>> I FEEL BLESSED TO HAVE HAD
THE OPPORTUNITY TO WALK IN THE
SAME FOOTSTEPS AND TO SHARE THIS
EXPERIENCE WITH SOME OF THOSE
WHO ARE THE MOST CLOSE TO ME.
I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
EVERYBODY SHOULD DO IF GIVEN THE
OPPORTUNITY TO REINVIGORATE
THEIR BELIEF IN THE HOLY SPIRIT.
>> Sreenivasan: ELSEWHERE, SOME
BELIEVERS WHIPPED THEMSELVES TO
DEMONSTRATE THEIR FAITH.
THIS YEAR, AT LEAST SIX MEN HAD
THEMSELVES NAILED TO CROSSES.
ONE OF THE MEN HAS TAKEN PART IN
THE RITUAL FOR THE PAST 29
YEARS.
SARAH BRADY WHO SPENT DECADES
WORKING FOR GUN CONTROL DIED
TODAY.
HER FAMILY SAID SHE DEVELOPED
PNEUMONIA.
BRADY WORKED FOR PRESIDENT
REAGAN.
SARAH BRADY WAS 737 YEARS OLD.
>> Sreenivasan: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
DISAPPOINTING JOBS NUMBERS;
HOW IRAN SEES THE NUCLEAR DEAL;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS;
AMERICA'S PASTIME GETS MORE
DIVERSE;
A NEW BIOGRAPHY OF THE FIRST
LADY;
PLUS, THE MANY WIVES AND MANY
LIES OF HENRY THE EIGHTH.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S EASY TO GET
TOO CAUGHT UP IN THE
EXPECTATIONS HEADING INTO ANY
JOBS REPORT, BUT BY MOST
MEASURES, THIS MONTH TOOK
EXPERTS BY SURPRISE.
THE OVERALL NUMBER OF NEW JOBS
WAS MUCH LOWER THAN ANYONE
PREDICTED, FAR BELOW THE NEARLY
270,000 A MONTH THAT HAD BEEN
THE AVERAGE OF THE PAST YEAR
AND WITH OTHER SIGNS OF
SLUGGISHNESS OF LATE, IT'S TIME
TO ASK IF THE ECONOMY IS SLOWING
DOWN, AND WHY.
DIANE SWONK OF MESIROW FINANCIAL
JOINS US AGAIN FROM CHICAGO.
SO,DINE, THOSE LAST FEW MONTHS
OF JOBS NUMBERS, WERE THEY THE
NORM OR WERE THEY AN OUTLIER?
>> THEY CERTAINLY WERE A
DISAPPOINTMENT, IF ANYTHING
ELSE.
I THINK THEY DO REFLECT THE
WEAKNESS THAT WE SAW IN THE
ECONOMY IN THE FIRST QUARTER AND
WHAT'S DIFFICULT TO TEASE OUT IS
HOW MUCH OF A ROLE UNUSUALLY
HARSH WINTER WEATHER, STRIKES,
AND WORK STOPPAGES ON THE WEST
COAST PORTS WHICH AFFECTED
MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY, HOW MUCH
OF IT WERE EXCUSES AND HOW MUCH
FUNDAMENTAL WEAKNESSES.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW ABOUT THE
DOLLAR AND THE STRENGTH OF THE
DOLLAR?
THAT'S BEEN A STORY LINE FOR THE
LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS.
>> CERTAINLY THE DOLLAR IS ONE
OF THE FACTORS ALONG WITH WEAK
GROWTH ABROAD HITTING THE
MANUFACTURING SECTOR.
THE BULK EFFECT OF THE DOLLAR IS
STILL AHEAD OF US.
THAT'S WHAT'S DISTURBING ABOUT
WHAT WE'VE SEEN TODAY.
MUCH TO HAVE THE INTERRUPTIONS
IN MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY CAME
BECAUSE WE LITERALLY HAD
CONTAINERS GET STOPPED AT WEST
COAST PORTS AND PARTS COULDN'T
MAKE IT TO MANUFACTURERS.
THE WEAKNESS IN THE DOLLAR AND
THE INABILITY TO PRICE CHEAPLY
IN THE WEAK ECONOMIES ABROAD,
THAT'S GOING TO BE AFFECTING US
AND GROWING IN MOMENTUM A BIGGER
HEAD WIND MOVING INTO THE SPRING
ONCE WE FINALLY UNLOAD THE
CONTAINERS AND GET THE PARTS
GOING AT THE MANUFACTURERS
AGAIN.
>> Sreenivasan: SHOULDN'T THE
DECREASING PRICE OF OIL AND FUEL
COMBAT THAT A LITTLE?
SHOULDN'T THAT ENCOURAGE
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY HERE?
>> OPERATIVE WORD "SHOULD."
WE'RE SEEING THE DRAG FROM OIL
PRICES, CUTS IN MINING AND
EMPLOYMENT, THREE MONTHS IN A
ROW DECLINE IN THE MINING SECTOR
AFTER WE SAW JOBS AND MINING
SECTOR SLOW TO ALMOST NOTHING IN
THE FIRST QUARTER, DECLINES IN
THE SECOND QUARTER PUNCTUATED BY
MARCH.
THAT'S THE ACTUAL EFFECT ON OIL
PRICES BY ACTIVITY.
THE BENEFITS, HIGHER CONSUMER
SPENDING, CHEAPERRER
MANUFACTURING CRORKSZ CHEAPER
COSTS ACROSS THE BOARD, WE'VE
YET TO SEE THE BENEFITS SO WE
DON'T KNOW IF THE CONSUMER IS
HIBERNATING WITH THE BAD WEATHER
OR IF HIBERNATION WITH
TREPIDATION.
WE ACTUALLY SAW THE SAVING RATE
PICKED UP IN THE RECENT MONTHS
AND WE'D LIKE TO SEE THAT SPENT
TO GET THE OFFSET FROM POSITIVE
NEWS FROM OIL REPORTS AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE REPORTS
WERE REVISIONS AND THOSE NUMBERS
WERE DOWN TODAY.
IS THAT SIGNIFICANT?
>> IT IS IN THE SENSE THAT MUCH
OF THE REVISIONS WE WERE SEEING
UP TILL NOW WERE TO UP SIDE.
THAT MEANT THE ECONOMY SHIFTED
MOMENTUM AND WAS ADDING JOBS
MORE THAN WE COULD COUNT BY THE
TIME WE DID THE INITIAL DATA.
SOMETHING TURNED AND WE SAW FUR
JOBS THAN INITIALLY THOUGHT.
THAT IS NOT SOMETHING WE'D LIKE
TO SEE.  WE'D LIKE TO SEE IT
GOING IN THE OTHER DIRECTION
THAT WE'RE ACTUALLY CREATING NEW
JOBS AND UNDERESTIMATING WHAT
WE'RE ACTUALLY SORT OF CHASING
THE CURVE RATHER THAN NOW WE
LOOK BEHIND THE CURVE.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
THINGS PEOPLE ARE ALSO PAYING TO
IS THE INFORMATION IN THE
REPORTS ABOUT WAGES.
WHAT WERE THE SIGNALS TODAY?
>> TODAY, YEAR OVER YEAR --
AVERAGE HOURLY EARNINGS 2% RISE
FROM A YEAR AGO.
A SLIGHT DECELERATION FROM
EARLIER IN THE QUARTER, A LITTLE
POP FROM SOME STATES ENACTING
MINIMUM WAGE LAWS.
29 STATES HAVE MINIMUM WAGE
ABOVE THE FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE.
THAT SAYING IT'S NOT SHOWING UP
IN YOUR OPINION IN TERMS OF
OVERALL WAGE GAINS AND THE ONLY
WAGES FROM COMBING GROWTH ARE
COMING FROM PLUMMETING PRICES AT
THE PUMP.
WE'VE YET TO SEE THE GOOD NEWS.
>> Sreenivasan: PEOPLE ARE
BRACE FOR AN INTEREST RATE
HIEFNLGT DO JOB REPORTS LIKE
TODAY'S MEAN THAT MIGHT BE
DELAYED?
>> I THINK IT'S VALIDATED IN THE
CAUTION IN RACING RATES.
THE CHAIR OF THE FED WAS VERY
VALIDATED THAT THE FED DOESN'T
NEED TO BE QUICK TO RAISE RATES.
NOT LIKELY TO HAPPEN IN JUNE.
EVEN AS THEY DO, THEY'LL DO SO
EVER SO SLOWLY BECAUSE THEY ARE
WORRIED ABOUT ALL THE POTHOLES
THAT STILL LIE AHEAD IN THE ROAD
IN FRONT OF US.
>> Sreenivasan: DIANE SWONK OF
MESIROW FINANCIAL.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
>> Sreenivasan: REACTION TO THE
NUCLEAR AGREEMENT WITH IRAN
POURED IN FROM ALL OVER THE
MIDDLE EAST AND ACROSS THE
POLITICAL SPECTRUM IN THE UNITED
STATES.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY WERE
DANCING IN TEHERAN'S STREETS
INO THTE EARLY MORNING HOURS.
>> I HAVEN'T MADE ANY BIG
PROGRESS IN TEN YEARS, WE ARE
VERY HAPPY THAT WE CAN FINALLY
GO FORWARD.
IT'S A REAL VICTORY FOR US.
>> Sreenivasan: LATER, AT FRIDAY
PRAYERS, WITH IRAN'S CHIEF
NUCLEAR OFFICIAL ON HAND, A TOP
CLERIC LAUDED THE AGREEMENT.
>> ( translated ): I SHOULD
REALLY CONGRATULATE ALL THE
GENTLEMEN WHO LED THE NUCLEAR
TALKS, GREAT JOB.
PRESIDENT OF AMERICA, AND ALL OF
YOU WHO ARE ON THE OTHER SIDE:
YOU HAVE MADE A DEAL WITH IRAN,
AND WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THAT
AGREEMENT IRAN WILL OBSERVE ALL
IT HAS COMMITTED ITSELF TO, AND
WILL KEEP ITS END OF THE DEAL.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT WAS A
POSSIBLE SIGNAL THAT IRAN'S
SUPREME LEADER, AYATOLLAH
KHAMENEI, AND HIS HARD-LINE
CADRE WILL ULTIMATELY ACCEPT THE
DEAL.
ESSENTIALLY, THE FRAMEWORK CALLS
FOR CURTAILING IRAN'S URANIUM
ENRICHMENT CAPACITY FOR UP TO 15
YEARS AND REQUIRING INTENSIVE
NEW INSPECTIONS, IN EXCHANGE FOR
SANCTIONS BEING LIFTED.
IN A TELEVISED ADDRESS, IRAN'S
PRESIDENT, HASSAN ROUHANI, SAID
HIS GOVERNMENT WILL DO WHAT IT
PROMISES, BUT HE REJECTED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S CONTENTION
THAT THE SANCTIONS FORCED THE
ISSUE.
>> ( translated ): THEY IMPOSED
SANCTIONS TO MAKE US SURRENDER.
BUT WHEN THEY REALIZED THAT
SURRENDERING WAS IMPOSSIBLE, AND
FOUND THEMSELVES FACING A
UNITED, INTEGRATED AND BRAVE
NATION, THEN THEY SAID 'THE
SANCTIONS WERE INTENDED FOR
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE IRANIAN
LEADER ALSO DECLARED THE WORLD
POWERS THAT SIGNED THE DEAL
"ACCEPT THAT URANIUM CAN BE
ENRICHED IN IRAN."
STILL, HE SAID, THE PROGRAM
POSES NO THREAT.
>> ( translated ): WE WANT
BETTER RELATIONS WITH COUNTRIES
THAT WE HAVE COLD RELATIONS
WITH.
THE ENRICHMENT AND THE
TECHNOLOGY WILL NOT BE USED
AGAINST ANY COUNTRY, NO REGIONAL
COUNTRY OR ANY IN THE WORLD.
>> Sreenivasan: THOSE WORDS DID
NOTHING TO MOLLIFY LEADERS IN
JERUSALEM.
>> THE DEAL WOULD LEGITIMIZE
IRAN'S ILLEGAL NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> Sreenivasan: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU HAD SPOKEN
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA OVERNIGHT
WHO SOUGHT TO REASSURE HIM, BUT
TO LITTLE APPARENT EFFECT.
>> ISRAEL WILL NOT ACCEPT AN
AGREEMENT WHICH ALLOWS A COUNTRY
THAT VOWS TO ANNIHILATE US TO
DEVELOP NUCLEAR WEAPONS, PERIOD.
IN ADDITION, ISRAEL DEMANDS THAT
ANY FINAL AGREEMENT WITH IRAN
WILL INCLUDE A CLEAR AND
UNAMBIGUOUS IRANIAN COMMITMENT
OF ISRAEL'S RIGHT TO EXIST.
>> Sreenivasan: THE WHITE HOUSE
INSISTED TODAY THE PRESIDENT
WOULD NOT ACCEPT AN AGREEMENT
THAT THREATENS ISRAEL.
AND STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESPERSON MARIE HARF SAID MR.
OBAMA IS SATISFIED THE
ADMINISTRATION DID NOT CONCEDE
TOO MUCH.
>> WE NEED TO CUT OFF THE FOUR
PATHWAYS FOR IRAN TO GET TO A
NUCLEAR WEAPON, AND WE NEED TO
GET IRAN FROM CURRENTLY TWO TO
THREE MONTHS OF BREAKOUT TIME,
UP TO SIX TIMES THAT, TO AT
LEAST A YEAR BREAKOUT TIME UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT, AND THAT'S WHAT
WE HAVE DONE.
OUR BOTTOM LINES HERE IN TERMS
OF WHAT WE NEEDED TO GET AT THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE HAVE NEVER
CHANGED.
>> Sreenivasan: OTHER PARTIES TO
THE TALKS STRUCK NOTES OF
CAUTION.
THE FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER,
LAURENT FABIUS, INSISTED A FINAL
AGREEMENT MUST ENSURE THERE IS
NO IRANIAN BOMB.
>> ( translated ): IF THIS
AGREEMENT IS NOT ENTIRELY SOLID,
THAT WOULD MEAN THAT IRAN COULD
GET A BOMB.
AND THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
AND IF THIS AGREEMENT IS NOT
PERCEIVED AS SOLID, THAT MEANS
THAT THE COUNTRIES OF THE REGION
SUCH AS SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT,
TURKEY, ET CETERA, COULD ALSO
START THINKING OF MAKING A BOMB
AND THAT WOULD BE A NUCLEAR
PROLIFERATION, DANGEROUS FOR
ALL.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE IS NO
SPECIFIC SCHEDULE ON RESUMPTION
OF TALKS, WHICH HAVE A DEADLINE
OF JUNE 30.
>> Sreenivasan: AND TO THE
ANALYSIS OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
DAVID, LET ME START WITH YOU.
IF THE HARD LINERS OR SOME HARD
LINERS IN IRAN ARE OPPOSED TO
THIS AND IF BENJAMIN NETANYAHU
IS OPPOSED TO THIS, DID THE U.S.
OLOGIST THREAD THE NEEDLE AND
TRY TO GET THE NEGOTIATIONS THAT
THEY WANTED TO?
>> I DON'T THINK SO.
I'M SKEPTICAL OF THE DEAL.
PARTS OF IT ARE IMPRESSIVE.
THE INSPECTION REGIME IS PRETTY
GOOD.
SO PEOPLE LIKELY KNOW WHAT
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT STAYING
FOR TEN YEARS, WE'LL AT LEAST
HAVE ACCESS TO LOTS OF DIFFERENT
PARTS TO HAVE THE IRANIAN WEAPON
SYSTEMS.
MAYBE NOT THE GUARD BURKS IT'S A
GOOD REGIME.
THE FIRST GOAL WAS TO GET RID OF
THE IRANIAN NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THAT'S WHAT THE PRESIDENT SAID.
WE'RE ALONG WAY FROM THAT.
SECOND, IN TEN YEARS, LOTS OF
BAD THINGS CAN HAPPEN.
THEY CAN REALLY MOVE QUICKLY.
THIRD, IT'S A BIG VENT ON THE
NATURE OF THE ISLAMIC REGIME.
DO THEY WANT TO JOIN THE UNITED
NATIONS?
I'M EXTREMELY SKEPTICAL.
THIS IS A REGIME THAT GENERALLY
TALKS ABOUT AND ACTS ON THE
BASIS OF THE IDEATHAT  IT'S A
RADIL RCAEGIME WITH A CERTAIN
MISSION AND HISTORY THAT DOESN'T
ONLY TALK ABOUT BUT ACTS ON,
FUNDS HEZBOLLAH, HAMAS, FUNDS
I.E.D.s THAT KILLS AMERICAN
TROOPS, IT WANTS A CERTAIN
INFLUENCE ON THE REGION THAT'S
HOSTILE.
SO WHEN PEOPLE LIKE DAVE
PETRAEUS SAY IRAN IS NOT THE
SOLUTION, IT'S A PROBLEM, THEN
WE YOU HAVE TO THINK WE'LL END
UP ENRICHING A REGIME THAT WILL
END UP DOING US HARM.
I'M WILLING TO GIVE IT A CHANCE,
BUT I'M A SKEPTIC.
>> Sreenivasan: MARK?
I THINK THE UNPRECEDENTED,
UNRESTRICTED INSPECTIONS ARE
VERY, VERY POSITIVE.
I AM VERY SUPPORTIVE OF WHAT I
KNOW ABOUT THE DEAL SO FAR.
THE REACTION RIGHT NOW AND THE
RESISTANCE WHICH HAS BEEN QUITE
OUTSPOKEN IN THIS COUNTRY
REMINDS ME OF A SECOND-TERM
PRESIDENT WHO NEGOTIATED WITH A
BRUTAL REGIME, THAT IT INFLAMED
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
AND KILLED MILLIONS OF PEOPLE,
AND HE HAD AN AGREEMENT TO CUT
OUR NUCLEAR BALLISTIC MISSILES
BY 50% UNILATERALLY.
HE CAME BACK, RONALD REAGAN,
FROM DEALING WITH MIKHAIL
GORBACHEV AND SAID THIS IS THE
DAY AMERICA LOST THE COLD WAR.
WILLIAM BUCKLEY'S NATIONALVIEW
CALLED IT RONALD REAGAN'S
SUICIDE PACT.
IT WAS ROUNDLY ROASTED.
I HAPPENED TO BELIEVE THAT YOU
NEGOTIATE WITH YOUR ENEMIES,
WITH YOUR ADVERSARIES, AND I
THINK FROM EVERYTHING I KNOW AT
THIS POINT, IT'S POSITIVE.
THERE'S GREAT RESISTANCE IN THIS
COUNTRY.
MAKE NO MISTAKE ABOUT IT.
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES FOR 2016,
BY EMPHASIZING THEIR OPPOSITION
TO PRESIDENT OBAMA ON ANYTHING
BUT CERTAINLY ON THIS HELPED
THEMSELVES.
MARK KIRK,, THE REPUBLICAN
SENATOR FROM ILLINOIS HAS
ALREADY RETIRED.
THE CLASSLESS DEMAGOGUERY AWARD
FOR 2015 AND MAYBE 2016 AS WELL
WHEN HE SAID WITHOUT HAVING EVEN
LOOKED AT THE TERMS THAT CHAMBER
LANE GOOD MORE FROM HITLER OUT
OF MUNICH THAN WE DID.
I AM CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC AND
HOPEFUL.
I D'T ONKNOW WHAT THE OPTION IS,
WHAT THE ALTERNATIVE IS.
I THINK TO BRING THEM IN, IT'S
ALWAYS BETTER TO DEAL WITH
PEOPLE THAN TO ISOLATE THEM, AND
I DON'T DO IT WITH MY EYES IN
ANY WAY CLOSED TO IRAN'S EVIL
ACTS.
>> SO THIS IS THE DEAL -- IS THE
IRANIAN REGIME STALIN OR
GORBAEV?CH
IF IT'S GORBACHEV WHO IS
IDEOLOGICALLY DEAD AND NOT
BELIEVING IN THEIR OWN REGIME
AND THIS PULLS TOGETHER THE
NATIONS THEN HOME RUN.
BUT I THINK THEY'RE STALIN AND
BELIEVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY
ZEAL.
IN THE IRAN-IRAQ WAR THEY HAVE
LAND MINUS.
HOW DO THEY CLEAR LAND MINUS?
THEY TOOK KIDS, GAVE THEM A
STRING AND HAD THEM WALK ACROSS
A FIELD.
SO THEY'RE IN A DIFFERENT MENTAL
UNIVERSE.
THAT WAS AT THE HIGH POINT TO
HAVE THE REVOLUTION.
BUT THEY'RE NOT SO FAR AWAY.
THEY'RE SPENDING ALL THIS MONEY
ON HEZBOLLAH BLAH, SOMETIMES IN
TACTICAL ALLIANCES WITH
AL QUAIDA.
THEY ARE A RADICAL REGIME.
SO I THINK WITHIN THE FEW SHORT
YEARS THEY WILL BE PUMPING OUT
OIL, RICHER, THE INFLUENCE ON
THE REGION WILL BE GREATER AND
THE SAUDIS WILL HAVE TO COUNTER
AND I ALREADY THINK THE REGION
IS IN THE MIDST TORE THE VERY
BEGINNING OF WHAT SOME PEOPLE
HAVE CALLED A 30-YEARS RELIGIOUS
WAR IN ALLOWING IRAN TO GET
RICHER AND POTENTIALLY NUCLEAR
IN THE MIDST OF THAT IS RISKY.
>> HALF THE POPULATION OF IRAN
IS UNDER AGE 35.
TO ME, THAT'S ENCOURAGING AND
THAT'S POSITIVE.
I THINK THAT THE ACCLAIM AND THE
RESPONSE, THE POSITIVE RESPONSE
TO THIS AGREEMENT THERE IS
ENCOURAGING IN ITSELF.
AND I DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, THE MOST UNEQUIVOCAL
VOICES IN OPPOSITION, PEOPLE
LIKE JOHN BOLTON, HAVE
RECOMMENDED AN ATTACK UPON IRAN,
TO ATTACK ON ITS NUCLEAR
CAPABILITIES.
YOU KNOW, THAT IS THE SHORTEST
OF SHORT-TERM.
THAT STRENGTHENS THE HARD
LINERS, THAT EMBOLDENS THEIR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM, AND TO ME ROILS
THE ALREADY TROUBLED WATERS IN
THE MIDDLE EAST.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THAT
IMPACT WHAT'S HAPPENING NOW?
GOOD FOR THE PRESIDENT?
>> HE WAS A RANKING MEMBER.
SENATOR MENDEZ HAS BEEN A
RANKING DEMOCRAT ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS COMMITTEE AND AN
OUTSPOKEN CRITIC ON ANY TREATY
WITH IRAN SO TO THAT DEGREE IT
PROBABLY HELPS THE PRESIDENT'S
POSITION AT THE EDGES.
>> AND THE REPUBLICANS ARE ALL
AGAINST.
THE DEMOCRATS ARE SORT OF
HESITANT.
THEY'RE SKEPTICAL, WAITING TO
SEE.
I SUSPECT, AT THE END OF THE
DAY, THE DEMOCRATS WILL SIDE
WITH THE PRESIDENT AND FRANKLY I
SUSPECT AT THE END OF THE DAY AS
MUCH AS REPUBLICANS GENERALLY
THINK IT'S A BAD DEAL IT TAKES A
LOT OF MOXIE TO THEN -- IT'S NOT
JUST US AND THE IRANIANS, IT'S
AN INTERNATIONAL DEAL WITH OTHER
COUNTRIES, IT TAKES A LOT IN THE
COVMENTS EVEN IF YOU'RE
SKEPTICAL, YOU HAVE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE IF THE SENATE
BASICALLY UNDERCUTS OUR OWN
PRESIDENT THERE ARE HUGE COSTS
TO THAT IN OUR ABILITY TO
NEGOTIATED ANYTHING IN THE
FUTURE.
SO EVEN AS MANY PEOPLE ARE
SKEPTICAL, WHETHER CONGRESS WILL
ACTUALLY DESTROY IT, I'M DUBIOUS
THAT WILL HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: THE RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM RESTORATION ACT, WHAT
HAPPENED IN INDIANA, ARKANSAS.
DAVID, WHAT DOES THIS SAY ABOUT
WHERE SOCIETY IS NOW?
>> I'M PRO-GAY MARRIAGE.
I HAVE BEEN PRO-GAY MARRIAGE OUT
OF THE WOMB.
SO I WOULD NOT HAVE SUPPORTED
THAT.
BUT I DO THINK TWO THINGS --
FIRST THE MINOR THING, THEN THE
MAJOR THING.
THE MINOR THING IS SUBSTANTIVE.
THERE IS GENERAL TENSION BETWEEN
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM AND TOLERANCE
AND FULL EL QUALITIES FOR GAYS
AND LESBIANS.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE WHO HAVE
DIFFERENT POINTS OF VIEW THAN ME
AND SOMEHOW WE HAVE TO GIVE THEM
SOME RESPECT AND SPACE.
THAT DOES NOT MEAN THEY'RE
ALLOWED TO DISCRIMINATE.
THAT'S A SUBSTANTI TENVESION
BETWEEN THE TWO THINGS.
TO ME THE LARGER ISSUE IS SIMPLY
PRAGMATIC.
THE GAY RIGHTS AGENDA AND THE
CAUSE HAS HAD AN AMAZING COUPLE
OF YEARS AND DECADE SWEEPING
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND DOING
GREAT IN URBAN AND SUBURBAN
AMERICA.
BUT PARTS OF AMERICA, RURAL,
RELIGIOUS, WHERE IT'S FACING
OPPOSITION.
AND THE QUESTION BECOMES HOW DO
YOU MAKE THOSE AREAS MORE
AMENABLE TO CHANGE?
AND I KNOW SO MANY CHRISTIANS
WHO BELIEVE IN THE BIBLE BUT
THEY'RE REALLY WRESTLING WITH
THIS.
TO ME, MAKING IT VERY POLARIZED
AND VERY SULL CHIEWRL WAR
SEEMINGLY IS THE WRONG WAY TO
MOVE PEOPLE.
SOME OF THE REACTION, I THOUGHT
WAS OVER THE TOP.
>> THE VELOCITY ON THIS ISSUE IS
ABSOLUTELY PHENOMENAL.
I POINT OUT THAT BY THE
STANDARDS OF MANY IN THE GAY
RIGHTS MOVEMENT TODAY, TWO YEARS
AGO THE STANCE OF THE PRESIDENT
WOULD HAVE BEEN BIGOTED,
MARRIAGE ONLY BETWEEN A MAN AND
A WOMAN.
THE ONLY WAY TO COMPARE IT TO ME
IS THE ATTITUDE OF INTERRACIAL
MARRIAGE.
AT THE TIME OF THE AGE OF
AQUARIUS IN THIS COUNTRY, FLOWER
CHILDREN, 75% OF AMERICANS
OPPOSED INTERRACIAL MARRIAGE.
NOW 90% ENDORSE IT AND 9% OPPOSE
IT.
THE SAME PATTERN IS IDENTIFIED
IN SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
>> FOR THE REPUBLICANS, IT'S A
REAL QUANDARY.
IT'S A REAL QUANDARY BECAUSE IT
IS AN ISSUE TO REPUBLICANS.
REPUBLICANS OPPOSE IT.
70% OF REPUBLICANS OPPOSE
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
THREE OUT OF FIVE INDEPENDENTS,
THE SWING GROUP ARE IN FAVOR OF
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
REPUBLICANS UNDER THE AGE OF 30,
60% OF THEM SUPPORT GAY
MARRIAGE, BUT IN A PRIMARY, IT
COULD BE INFLUENTIAL.
ESPECIALLY IN SOUTH CAROLINA
WHERE RICK SANTORUM AND MIKE
HUCKABEE HAVE PARODIED IN
SOUTH CAROLINA WITH POLITICAL
AND CULTURAL CONSERVATIVES.
BUT THERE IS THE QUESTION OF
RELIGIOUS LIBERTY WHICH IS BASIC
TO OUR COUNTRY, TRULY WHETHER
QUAKERS AND MENNONI THE MILITARY
OR HEAD SCARVES OR GEAR, WHETHER
MUSLIMS OR JEWISH PEOPLE, WE'VE
HAD A RESPECT FOR THAT AND IT
ENCOURAGES TOLERANCE.
I THINK THE GAY RIGHTS MOVEMENT
IS IN SUCH DOMINANCE AT THIS
POINT -- DOMINANCE MAY BE THE
WRONG WORD -- THAT I THINK IT'S
TIME TO LOOK FOR CONVERTS RATHER
THAN HERATICS.
I THINK THE INDIANA STATUTE WENT
TOO FAR WHEN IT GAVE THE SAME
RIGHTS TO A CORPORATION THAT IT
BESTOWS ON AN INDIVIDUAL.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THIS
SOMETHING THE MARKET WILL
CORRECT FOR OVER TIME?
THE SUPPORT MEMORIES PIZZA JOINT
THAT DECIDED THEY WOULD ABIDE BY
THE LAW IF IT WAS.
THEY PUT OUT A GO FUND ME
CAMPAIGN.
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR 200,000
AND AT LEAST $800,000 AND PRETTY
MUCH ONE DAY FROM 27,000, 30,000
PEOPLE.
SO OVER TIME, IS THIS A MATTER
OF A POPULATION SHIFTING, THEIR
CUSTOMERS SHIFTING AND SAYING
I'M TAKING MY MONEY SOMEWHERE
ELSE?
IS THAT MORE EFFECTIVE THAN A
FEDERAL OR LOCAL STATE LAW?
>> OBVIOUSLY, CHRISTIANS COULD
SUPPORT BODE SIDES.
THAT WOULD BE MY SOLUTION
BASICALLY.
A LOT OF THE ISSUE GETS DOWN TO
SAY A GAY COUPLE GOES TO A BICK
RIOR WEDDING PHOTOGRAPHER AND
SAYS WOULD YOU WORK OUR MARRIAGE
CEREMONY AND THE BAKER AND
PHOTOGRAPHER SAYS I'M NOT REALLY
COMFORTABLE ABOUT THAT, SHOULD
THE GOVERNMENT BE FORCING THAT
BAKER OR PHOTOGRAPHER TO WORK?
SHOULD THEY COARSETHEM  INTO
WORKING IT?
IF IT WAS A BASIC ISSUE OF
VOTING RIGHTS, OBVIOUSLY, YES.
TO ME, I WOULD BOYCOTT THAT
PHOTOGRAPHER OR BAKER BUT I
WOULD NOT FEEL COMFORTABLE THE
GOVERNMENT FORCING THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: ABOUT 15
SECONDS.
>> I HAD BEEN AWARE OF THE PIZZA
STORY.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION.
THERE HAS BEEN, IN MY JUDGMENT,
A WAVE THAT IS IRREVERSIBLE, BUT
I DO THINK IT'S THE TIME NOT TO
TAKE A VICTORY DANCE IN THE END
ZONE.
I THINK IT'S THE TIME TO REACH
OUT AND REACH ACROSS THE DIVIDE
AT THIS POINT AND ACKNOWLEDGE
THE GOOD WILL OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
THAT'S MISSING IN OUR POLITICS
COMPLETELY.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT NOT HERE
AT THIS TABLE.
MARK MARX DAVIMARK SHIELDS, DAV,
THANKS SO MUCH.